README.md, before:

# img-paste.vim
Yet simple tool to paste images into markdown files

## Use Case
You are editing a markdown file and have an image on the clipboard and want to paste it into the document as the text `![](img/image1.png)`. Instead of first copying it to that directory, you want to do it with a single `<leader>p` key press in Vim. So it hooks `<leader>p`, checks if you are editing a Markdown file, saves the image from the clipboard to the location  `img/image1.png`, and inserts `![](img/image1.png)` into the file.

By default, the location of the saved file (`img/image1.png`) and the in-text reference (`![](img/image1.png`) are identical. You can change this behavior by specyfing an absolute path to save the file (`let g:mdip_imgdir_absolute = /absolute/path/to/imgdir` on linux) and a different path for in-text references (`let g:mdip_imgdir_intext = /relative/path/to/imgdir` on linux). 

## Installation

Using Vundle
```
Plugin 'img-paste-devs/img-paste.vim'
```

## Usage
Add to .vimrc
```
autocmd FileType markdown nmap <buffer><silent> <leader>p :call mdip#MarkdownClipboardImage()<CR>
" there are some defaults for image directory and image name, you can change them
" let g:mdip_imgdir = 'img'
" let g:mdip_imgname = 'image'
```

### Extend to other markup languages ###
Simply add a custom paste function that accepts the relative path to the image as an argument, and set `g:PasteImageFunction` to the name of your function. E.g. 
```
function! g:LatexPasteImage(relpath)
    execute "normal! i\\includegraphics{" . a:relpath . "}\r\\caption{I"
    let ipos = getcurpos()
    execute "normal! a" . "mage}"
    call setpos('.', ipos)
    execute "normal! ve\<C-g>"
endfunction
```
Then in your .vimrc:
```
autocmd FileType markdown let g:PasteImageFunction = 'g:MarkdownPasteImage'
autocmd FileType tex let g:PasteImageFunction = 'g:LatexPasteImage'
```
The former sets the (default) markdown paste function for markdown files, while the latter sets the new latex paste function to be used in latex/tex files. The above LatesPasteImage has already been added to the plugin, see `plugin/mdip.vim`. Existing paste functions:

Finally, add the file type (e.g. `tex`) to the first line you added, as
```
autocmd FileType markdown,tex nmap <buffer><silent> <leader>p :call mdip#MarkdownClipboardImage()<CR>
                        '----'
```

| Filetype | Function name | Content |
|----------|---------------|---------|
| Markdown | MarkdownPasteImage | `![Image](path)` |
| Latex | LatexPasteImage | `\includegraphics{path} \caption{Image}` |
| N/A  | EmptyPasteImage | `path` |

PRs welcome

### For linux user
This plugin gets clipboard content by running the `xclip` command.

install `xclip` first.

## Acknowledgements
I'm not yet perfect at writing vim plugins but I managed to do it. Thanks to [Karl Yngve Lervåg](https://vi.stackexchange.com/users/21/karl-yngve-lerv%C3%A5g) and [Rich](https://vi.stackexchange.com/users/343/rich) for help on [vi.stackexchange.com](https://vi.stackexchange.com/questions/14114/paste-link-to-image-in-clipboard-when-editing-markdown) where they proposed a solution for my use case.

Commit message:

ADDED: surport zim and txt file

README.md, after:

# img-paste.vim
Yet simple tool to paste images into markdown files, This branch is different from the main branch. Copy the image to the directory of the zim file.

## 1 Use Case
You are editing a markdown file and have an image on the clipboard and want to paste it into the document as the text `![](img/image1.png)`. Instead of first copying it to that directory, you want to do it with a single `<leader>p` key press in Vim. So it hooks `<leader>p`, checks if you are editing a Markdown file, saves the image from the clipboard to the location  `img/image1.png`, and inserts `![](img/image1.png)` into the file.

By default, the location of the saved file (`img/image1.png`) and the in-text reference (`![](img/image1.png`) are identical. You can change this behavior by specyfing an absolute path to save the file (`let g:mdip_imgdir_absolute = /absolute/path/to/imgdir` on linux) and a different path for in-text references (`let g:mdip_imgdir_intext = /relative/path/to/imgdir` on linux). 

## 2 Installation

Using Vundle
```
Plugin 'img-paste-devs/img-paste.vim'
```

## 3 Usage
Add to .vimrc
```
autocmd FileType markdown nmap <buffer><silent> <leader>p :call mdip#MarkdownClipboardImage()<CR>
" there are some defaults for image directory and image name, you can change them
" let g:mdip_imgdir = 'img'
" let g:mdip_imgname = 'image'
```

### 3.1 Extend to other markup languages ###
Simply add a custom paste function that accepts the relative path to the image as an argument, and set `g:PasteImageFunction` to the name of your function. E.g. 
```
function! g:LatexPasteImage(relpath)
    execute "normal! i\\includegraphics{" . a:relpath . "}\r\\caption{I"
    let ipos = getcurpos()
    execute "normal! a" . "mage}"
    call setpos('.', ipos)
    execute "normal! ve\<C-g>"
endfunction
```
Then in your .vimrc:
```
autocmd FileType markdown let g:PasteImageFunction = 'g:MarkdownPasteImage'
autocmd FileType tex let g:PasteImageFunction = 'g:LatexPasteImage'
```
The former sets the (default) markdown paste function for markdown files, while the latter sets the new latex paste function to be used in latex/tex files. The above LatesPasteImage has already been added to the plugin, see `plugin/mdip.vim`. Existing paste functions:

Finally, add the file type (e.g. `tex`) to the first line you added, as
```
autocmd FileType markdown,tex nmap <buffer><silent> <leader>p :call mdip#MarkdownClipboardImage()<CR>
                        '----'
```

| Filetype | Function name | Content |
|----------|---------------|---------|
| Markdown | MarkdownPasteImage | `![Image](path)` |
| Latex | LatexPasteImage | `\includegraphics{path} \caption{Image}` |
| N/A  | EmptyPasteImage | `path` |

PRs welcome

### 3.2 For linux user
This plugin gets clipboard content by running the `xclip` command.

install `xclip` first.

## 4 Acknowledgements
I'm not yet perfect at writing vim plugins but I managed to do it. Thanks to [Karl Yngve Lervåg](https://vi.stackexchange.com/users/21/karl-yngve-lerv%C3%A5g) and [Rich](https://vi.stackexchange.com/users/343/rich) for help on [vi.stackexchange.com](https://vi.stackexchange.com/questions/14114/paste-link-to-image-in-clipboard-when-editing-markdown) where they proposed a solution for my use case.
